INVOICEFOCUS — DEFINITIVE FIX FOR RENDER ESBUILD MODULE_NOT_FOUND

The Render deployment is STILL failing with the exact same error:

Error [ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND]: Cannot find package 'esbuild' imported from /opt/render/project/src/artifacts/api-server/build.mjs

This means the previous attempted fix did NOT resolve the actual production dependency problem.

DO NOT make another speculative fix.

DO NOT change Render commands yet.

DO NOT modify unrelated code.

DO NOT modify the frontend.

DO NOT modify the logo.

DO NOT modify authentication.

DO NOT modify invoice functionality.

DO NOT reapply or modify migration 019_free_platform_cleanup.sql.

Your task is to inspect the CURRENT repository and definitively identify why the Render environment cannot resolve esbuild.

CURRENT RENDER CONFIGURATION:

Root Directory:
.

Build Command:
pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run build

Start Command:
pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run start

The failing build file is:

artifacts/api-server/build.mjs

The API workspace package is:

@workspace/api-server

Perform the following investigation:

1. Inspect the root package.json.

2. Inspect:
   artifacts/api-server/package.json

3. Inspect:
   artifacts/api-server/build.mjs

4. Inspect:
   pnpm-workspace.yaml

5. Inspect:
   pnpm-lock.yaml

6. Determine EXACTLY where esbuild is declared.

7. Determine whether esbuild is declared under:
   - dependencies
   - devDependencies
   - optionalDependencies

8. Determine which package actually imports esbuild.

9. Determine whether build.mjs imports esbuild directly.

10. Determine whether the dependency is available from the location where Node resolves build.mjs.

11. Determine whether pnpm workspace dependency isolation prevents build.mjs from resolving esbuild.

12. Determine whether Render is installing production dependencies only and therefore omitting esbuild.

13. Determine whether the lockfile contains esbuild correctly.

14. Determine whether the current package manager version used by Render matches the project's packageManager configuration.

15. Reproduce the production build locally using the same command:

pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run build

16. If possible, reproduce a clean install using the repository's lockfile and then run the same build command.

IMPORTANT:

Do not simply add esbuild somewhere without understanding why the module cannot be resolved.

Do not install a duplicate or unnecessary version of esbuild.

Do not use a global esbuild installation.

Do not change the Render Build Command as a workaround unless you can prove the repository configuration is correct and the Render environment itself is the problem.

The final fix must ensure that:

pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run build

works after a clean dependency installation in a fresh environment.

The Render build must be able to resolve:

esbuild

from:

artifacts/api-server/build.mjs

using the current monorepo structure.

If the correct fix is to add esbuild to a specific package's dependencies, explain WHY that package needs it.

If the correct fix is to move esbuild from devDependencies to dependencies, explain WHY.

If the correct fix is a pnpm workspace configuration change, explain WHY.

If the correct fix is a packageManager/version configuration issue, explain WHY.

If the correct fix is a Render build configuration issue, prove that the repository dependency configuration is correct before recommending it.

After applying the ROOT-CAUSE fix, run:

- pnpm install using the lockfile
- pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run build
- pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run start, if practical
- Frontend typecheck
- Frontend production build
- API typecheck
- API production build
- git diff --check

Finally provide a report with EXACTLY:

1. Root cause
2. Files inspected
3. Files changed
4. Exact fix
5. Why the previous fix failed
6. Why the new fix works in a clean Render environment
7. Exact Render Build Command
8. Exact Render Start Command
9. Whether Render Root Directory should remain "."
10. Verification results

Do not claim the issue is fixed unless the build has been successfully reproduced after a clean dependency installation.

Make the smallest safe change necessary.